---
title: "Disturbance Preview for Nonlinear Model Predictive Trajectory Tracking of Underwater Vehicles in Wave Dominated Environments"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/iros2023
excerpt: 'This paper presents a Nonlinear Model Predictive Controller with an integrated Deterministic Sea Wave Predictor for trajectory tracking of underwater vehicles. The strategy is compared to a similar feed-forward disturbance mitigation scheme, showing mean performance improvements of 51\\% in positional error and 44.5\\% in attitude error.'
date: 2023-10-01
venue: 'IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14834'
citation: 'K. L. Walker et al. &quot;Disturbance Preview for Nonlinear Model Predictive Trajectory Tracking of Underwater Vehicles in Wave Dominated Environments.&quot; <i>IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)</i>, Detroit, MI, USA, 01-05 Oct. 2023.'
---
Operating in the near-vicinity of marine energy devices poses significant challenges to the control of underwater vehicles, predominantly due to the presence of large magnitude wave disturbances causing hazardous state perturbations. Approaches to tackle this problem have varied, but one promising solution is to adopt predictive control methods. Given the predictable nature of ocean waves, the potential exists to incorporate disturbance estimations directly within the plant model; this requires inclusion of a wave predictor to provide online preview information. To this end, this paper presents a Nonlinear Model Predictive Controller with an integrated Deterministic Sea Wave Predictor for trajectory tracking of underwater vehicles. State information is obtained through an Extended Kalman Filter, forming a complete closed-loop strategy and facilitating online wave load estimations. The strategy is compared to a similar feed-forward disturbance mitigation scheme, showing mean performance improvements of 51\% in positional error and 44.5\% in attitude error. The preliminary results presented here provide strong evidence of the proposed method's high potential to effectively mitigate disturbances, facilitating accurate tracking performance even in the presence of high wave loading.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.14834)

Recommended citation: K. L. Walker et al. &quot;Disturbance Preview for Nonlinear Model Predictive Trajectory Tracking of Underwater Vehicles in Wave Dominated Environments.&quot; <i>IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)</i>, Detroit, MI, USA, 01-05 Oct. 2023.
